{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2577
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Belief in the paranormal has become increasingly mainstream. About 1 in 3 British people believe in the existence of ghosts and alien life1, while about half of Americans believe in supernatural beings2. This is accompanied by the rise of the paranormal in popular media that turns such beliefs, or even scepticism, into profit. Horror films frequently feature scenes with paranormal occurrences, such as haunted locations or sightings of mysterious creatures.\
\
In real life, UFO sightings have risen dramatically during the recent Covid-19 pandemic3 , whilst some states have reported a spike in bigfoot sightings4,5,6. These serve as a basis for an investigation into these supernatural phenomena.\
\
This series is an exploration into these claims of supernatural happenings in the United States. It is aimed at a general audience, especially those with a keen interest in the paranormal. It is centred on three types of paranormal occurrences: haunted places, UFOs and bigfoot. Altogether, this collection strives to visualise the geography of these paranormal incidences. \
\
All maps have been created in QGIS, with data processing performed in RStudio and Excel. \
\
\
Ever seen a structure, abandoned and derelict, that just sends chills down your spine? Or heard of a ghost haunting the floors of a specific building? The Shadowlands Haunted Places Index compiles an extensive listing of such locations, with a comprehensive record of haunted places in the United States. \
\
The map illustrates the number of haunted locations for each county, normalised by size. Counties in the northeast appear to have many more haunted locations than elsewhere, as demonstrated by both the normalised map above and point map on the left. The highest numbers of haunted places occur in counties either in the southwest or in the northeast. \
\
Some counties\'97most of them inland\'97have no reported haunted locations at all. They are most likely normal, serene, unhaunted places. Otherwise, they may simply just be full of yet-to-be-discovered haunted places, making them fertile ground for curious explorers of the paranormal.\
\
With the stark cultural differences across the 51 states in America, the haunted locations observed in the diverse states may perhaps vary as much. Text analysis was performed to identify the adjective most commonly used by each state when describing the haunted locationsa. The findings are then mapped above. The accompanying treemap visualises the frequency of each adjective. \
\
Most states report recurrent observations of \'91running\'92 and \'91standing\'92. Standing apparitions appear to be more common in the southern and northeast states, while spirits that run are frequently observed throughout the country. A sizeable number of adjectives used, such as \'91woodland\'92, \'91dread\'92, \'91civil\'92, and \'91human\'92, are unique to certain states. \
\
Future work could include expanding the text analysis to include most frequently used phrases, which may offer more context to the adjectives used. \
  \
Mysterious, oddly-shaped objects zooming across the sky are certainly an unforgettable sight. The National UFO Reporting Centre provides a comprehensive log of every Unidentified Flying Object (UFO) report in history. UFOs have been spotted since 1400 AD, as shown in historical artefacts such as ancient maps, family photographsb, and reports from highly respected personsc. Some were even observed before the invention of airplanes! \
\
The map illustrates the number of UFO sightings normalised by county population. Counties along the West Coast have high rates of UFO sightings, with Los Angeles having spotted a sizeable number of UFOs, even despite its large urban population. Rates generally decrease inland. Text analysis shows the common descriptors of UFOs to be airplanes and triangles, which are often white or orange in colour.\
Nevertheless, whether UFOs can be justified by an entirely earthbound explanation depends on whom you ask\'97extra-terrestrial experts or sceptics. \
\
Across the globe, humans have been fascinated by accounts of various beast-like wild men. Pictured above is the bigfoot or the sasquatch, a creature that is most prominently known in North America. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The reported sightings of bigfoot in the United States have been visualised here. The hairy beast appears to prefer greener landscapes, with a disdain for inland desert-like and mountainous areas. Nevertheless, many West Coast dwellers have reported observations of a sasquatch before. This implies that coastal deserts may be a favourable habitat for this creature. The highest concentration of bigfoot sightings seems to be in the northwest and the southeast of the United States. 
\f1 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
The bigfoot is a hairy, bipedal creature that resembles an ape. Many have seen bigfoot with their very own eyes. Bigfoot has been seen either out in the woods, in the snow, or simply in some form of wilderness7. Some have also stumbled upon its gigantic footprint8. Photographic \'91evidence\'92 of bigfoot itself, and of its footprint, is abundant on the internet7,8. \
\
Bigfoot is rumoured to be a large, dark, and hairy bipedal that is most certainly not a human. Meanwhile, large, dark, furry black bears with an injured front paw may end up walking on their two hind paws9. Could walking black bears have been mistaken for this beast? \
\
This bivariate choropleth map shows the extent to which bigfoot sightings and the black bear populations coincide. In the West Coast, there are high populations of black bears. Simultaneously, there are many reported observations of bigfoot. Evidently, Americans in the states of California, Oregon and Washington are likely to confuse a black bear for bigfoot.\
\
However, there are some states with very sparse populations of black bears, yet have many claims of bigfoot appearances. Illinois has no black bear population at all, despite having the fifth most bigfoot sightings. Texas and Ohio see a similar trend, with many bigfoot observations despite little to no black bears. Since it is nigh impossible for people in these states to spot black bears, the reported bigfoot sightings are likely to be truly bigfoot\'97or perhaps another hairy bipedal creature mistaken for it. \
\
Nevertheless, bigfoot experts dispute the claim that bigfoot sightings are just black bears on their hind paws. According to Matt Moneymaker, president of Bigfoot Field Researchers\'92 Organization and host of Animal Planet\'92s \'91Finding Bigfoot\'92, people usually conclude that the creature is bigfoot only after considering and rejecting the possibility of it being any other animal10. After all, bigfoot is an ape-like figure that is rather distinct from the black bear and its protruding snout along with its ears atop the head. \
\
AUTO-CRITIQUE\
The main constraint of this atlas is the use of crowdsourced data. The datasets of haunted locations, UFO sightings and bigfoot observations are entirely consisted of submitted reports from the general public. The data may be biased towards those with higher digital literacy and who know of the existence of these sites. Furthermore, the data are vulnerable to hoaxes, misinformation, and exaggeration, which are especially pertinent in the context of the paranormal. \
\
The data on paranormal sightings and haunted places are available globally. However, only US locations were illustrated as non-US places lack a standard schema for the ease of geocoding and web scraping11.\
Normalising haunted location data by county area, rather than by population, causes the map to possibly reflect higher county populations that have higher possibility of reports. Additionally, text mining was incognisant of context. Some common adjectives may not necessarily describe the location itself, and instead perhaps describe the reporter\'92s action. \
\
Bigfoot sightings were visualised as spatial points, which may lead to inaccurate inferences based on terrain, when the lack of sightings in desert regions could instead be due to a lack of resident population.\
}